README.md, before:

# README
Spring-Crypto-CLI is a replacement for spring-cloud-cli with its encryption and decryption functionalities which is no 
longer supported with spring boot 3.*:      
https://github.com/spring-cloud/spring-cloud-cli/issues/180  

It uses the spring security crypto module to do the encryption as done by spring-cloud-cli:  
https://docs.spring.io/spring-security/reference/features/integrations/cryptography.html

## How to build and run
Build with:  
```mvn verify```    
Run with:  
```java -jar ./target/spring-crypto-cli-1.1.0-SNAPSHOT-jar-with-dependencies.jar ```

### Alias
For simplicity, we recommend to register an alias like the following in your `~/.profile`:  
`alias spring-crypto-cli='java -jar ./bin/spring-crypto-cli-1.1.0-SNAPSHOT-jar-with-dependencies.jar'`

## Usage
The examples below will use this alias.
### Encryption
```
spring-crypto-cli encrypt --message "Hello" --key "test"
```
returns something like:
```
db13bc5a9a7e919a4f95508ae2558b6c8c92b5e75a83bea4dd0d5802030ab064
```

### Decryption
```
spring-crypto-cli decrypt --message "6d3de18155ea5faa717ecd34e9443d3f73867664fc8977829c4382c4878fcf1c" --key "test"
```
returns:
```
Hello
```

Commit message:

Add description on now to use property encryption within projects

README.md, after:

# Spring-Crypto-CLI
Spring-Crypto-CLI is a replacement for spring-cloud-cli with its encryption and decryption functionalities which is no 
longer supported with spring boot 3.*:      
https://github.com/spring-cloud/spring-cloud-cli/issues/180  

It uses the spring security crypto module to do the encryption as done by spring-cloud-cli:  
https://docs.spring.io/spring-security/reference/features/integrations/cryptography.html

## How to build and run
Build with:  
```mvn verify```    
Run with:  
```java -jar ./target/spring-crypto-cli-1.1.0-SNAPSHOT-jar-with-dependencies.jar ```

### Alias
For simplicity, we recommend to register an alias like the following in your `~/.profile`:  
`alias spring-crypto-cli='java -jar ./bin/spring-crypto-cli-1.1.0-SNAPSHOT-jar-with-dependencies.jar'`

## Usage
The examples below will use this alias.
### Encryption
```
spring-crypto-cli encrypt --message "Hello" --key "test"
```
returns something like:
```
db13bc5a9a7e919a4f95508ae2558b6c8c92b5e75a83bea4dd0d5802030ab064
```

### Decryption
```
spring-crypto-cli decrypt --message "6d3de18155ea5faa717ecd34e9443d3f73867664fc8977829c4382c4878fcf1c" --key "test"
```
returns:
```
Hello
```

## Usage in spring projects
If you include the following maven dependency:
```
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.cloud</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-cloud-starter</artifactId>
    <version>${spring-cloud.version}</version>
    <scope>runtime</scope>
</dependency>
```
or gradle dependency:
```
runtimeOnly 'org.springframework.cloud:spring-cloud-starter:${spring-cloud.version}'
```

You can then use the encrypted values in your `application.properties`:
```
my.secret.property={cipher}db13bc5a9a7e919a4f95508ae2558b6c8c92b5e75a83bea4dd0d5802030ab064
```

If you then start your application and provide it at runtime an `encrypt.key` property, containing your encryption key, 
then the application will decrypt the values before startup. 
Just make sure not to store your encryption key within the git project.
